 
AYUSH KHARE 
M.Tech - Mechanical Engineering 
Indian Institute of Technology  Tirupati,  India 
www.linkedin.com/in/ayush-khare-188759186 
Phone No./ Mail ID  :- ayushkhare3.14@gmail.com  / 9926207572  
Education   Details 
                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
Program                                                                   Institute                                                                                                      Year       %/CGPA 
M.Tech - Design & Manufacturing                          IIT Tirupati                                                                                                2024       7.81 
B.Tech - Mechanical                                                 Gyan Ganga Institute  of Technology and Sciences                                    2021       8.95 
12th                                                                          Nachiketa  S.S School                                                                                 2017       80 
10th                                                                          Nachiketa  S.S School                                                                                 2015       8.4 
Areas of Interest                                                                                                                                                                                          
•  Research & Development, Product Design, Machine Design, FEA, CAD, Design and Optimization, Manufacturing 
 
 
CAD Softwares 
Finite Element Analysis 
Simulation Tools 
Rendering Software 
Autopilot Software 
Product Design 
Catia V5 , AutoCAD, Solidworks 
ANSYS - Workbench 
Matlab 
KeyShot 
ArduPilot 
CDR, Design Reviews, DFx , FMEA , QFD , Material Selection , Prototyping
 
 
 
•   R&D - Design Engineer (Organization: Transvahan Technologies India Private Limited, Bengaluru )                                    [July  2024 – Till Date ] 
Performed calculations for product design tailored to the Indian Army's requirements. Conducted structural analysis using ANS     YS 
and implemented design optimizations to reduce product    weight and cost, ensuring efficiency and reliability.    
•   Intern  - Design  Engineer  ( Organization : Prima Innotech  LLC, US )                                                                              [March 2023 – Till Date] 
Led the team in designing and optimizing CAD designs for Prototype Exfoliation and Ni Electroplating Apparatus.  Applied DFx, 
CDR, DFEA, and QFD methodologies, alongside material selection and cost reduction analyses. Conducted structural analysis to 
ensure robustness and facilitated manufacturing at IIT Tirupati facilities.  
•   Intern - Design Engineer (Organization: Prima Innotech LLC, US)                                                                                                    
Developed a conceptual design for an exfoliation and electroplating apparatus. Designed a Catia V5 CAD-based concept for a 
wafer exfoliation system, integrating controlled spalling techniques inspired by IBM research. The design focuses on enhancing 
efficiency  by  replacing  SiC  with  GaN,  targeting  applications  in  flexible  circuit  boards.  By  incorporating  GaN  on  sapphire 
substrates and electroplating Ni on GaN, this innovation has the potential to revolutionize India's semiconductor industry, i    mprove 
competitiveness, and drive innovation.  
•   Intern  - Design Engineer  (Organization: Prima  Innotech  LLC, US)  
Designed  a Traction  Model for  an Autonomous Vehicle similar Tesla Model Y, in Matlab Simulink to obtain parameters such as 
current, motor torque, acceleration, battery consumption, etc   . 
•   Internship  (Organization : Oil and Natural  Gas Corporation  Limited)                                                                                               [4 Weeks] 
It involved in various activities related to the exploration, production, and management of oil and natural gas resources. Worked 
on Air Conditioning, Power Generation and Drilling Techniques. 
•   Internship (Organization: Ordnance Factory Khamaria)                                                                                                                         [2 Week] 
It is responsible for manufacturing various defense-related equipment, ammunition, and weapons for the Indian Armed Forces. 
Learn the manufacturing Techniques and Quality checking methods.  
 Experience 
Technical Proficiency 
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
 Projects                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
•   Design and Development of Fixed wing Drone                                                                                                                                         [6 Months] 
Aim to build a drone with autonomous  landing  and takeoff with 24hr  of Flight duration. Currently  Working  on Designing  and 
analysis of the Drone. Manufacturing it using VIP Technique from the composite material using Carbon Fiber. Working on RTK 
for the GPS and ArduPilot for the autonomous handling of Drone. 
•  Drone Launcher System                                                                                                                                                                           [6 Months] 
We  have  developed  a  fully  indigenous  Drone  Launcher,  designed  using  CAD,  analyzed,  optimized,  and  fabricated  to  reliably 
launch drones weighing up to 20kg. Once testing is complete, we plan to apply for a patent. This innovative solution will be       the 
first of its kind in India and is projected to be 95% more cost -effective than European competitors.  
•   Electric Kart                                                                                                                                                                                               [6 Months]
Build an Electric kart for the National Electric Kart Championship. Designed a CAD model usin g CATIA V5 and Structural analysis 
using ANSYS Workbench .           
 
Achievements                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
•    Chancellor Scholarship by RGPV university. 
•   Idea Selected for Smart India Hackathon 2018 on Security and Surveillance System. 
  Positions of Responsibility                                                                                                                                                                                             
Placement Representative 
•    Responsible for all the placement related things for the Design & Manufacturing Branch. 
Manage International Conference PFAM organized in IIT Tirupati 
•    Responsible for managing the Guest and handling the Technical and Scheduling Conferences. 
               [1 year] 
 
               [1 Months]
  Extra Curricular activities                                                                                                                                                                                             
•   Completed NCC ' B ' and NCC ' C ' Certificate 
•   Played in Inter Hostel Volleyball  Team 
  Hobbies or  Interests                                                                                                                                                                                                         
•    Reading  Books of Stock Market , Intraday Trader , Playing  Cricket  , Volleyball   , Walking  
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
